Daemon Sets:
Kube-proxy must be in every node. So They can be deployed as daemon. Daemon node ensures every node has a pod
Creating a deamonis manifest file is similar to replica set

StaticPods:
Static pods can be created even if there are no kube-api server, shceduler,controller. we can still spin up a pod with using kubelet. 
we cannot creat deployments or rs ,. We can just directly place the manifest file in alocation so that it will automatically create the pod using it.
we can create kuberentes related components by using statio pods by doing that we dont have to think about binareis and dependencies of the components
WE can create the pod by placing them in the manifest file location which we can discover on the configurtation.yaml file  path is /var/lib/kubelete/config.yaml

Difference between Deamon sets and Static pods:
Static pod:                             Daemon Set:
created by kubelet                      created by the kube-api server
Deploy control plane compnents as       Deploy monitroing agents, Logging agents on nodes
static pods
Both were ignored by the kube-scheduler

Mutliple Schedulers:
we can write our own scheduler program and we can assign it to the pods


Logging monitoring:

For Monitoring cluster we need to deploy metrics-server to monitor the PODs and Nodes as below
git clone https://github.com/kodekloudhub/kubernetes-metrics-server.git
kubectl apply -f  kubernetes-metrics-server/.
kubectl top node

Fro application logs we need to write a yaml file for event-simulator.yaml
then we can tail the logs as below
kubectl logs -f even-simulator-pod <pod name>

Application lifecyle management:

Configuring applications comprises of understanding the following concepts:

Configuring Command and Arguments on applications
command: ["sleep"] 
args: ["5000]

Configuring Environment Variables
we will use env for giving env variables. env is an array
config maps and secrets are the Environment variable we can use

configMaps:
we can create the configmaps Environment variable with eother definition file or by declarative method after creting it we can use that Environment varibles by injecting in the pod defintion file as below

creating the new configmap file using the yaml or imperative method
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: webapp-config-map
data:
  APP_COLOR: darkblue
  APP_OTHER: disregard

refrenecing the newly created confog map in pod manfiest file
  - env:
    - name: APP_COLOR
      valueFrom:
        configMapKeyRef:
          name: webapp-config-map
          key: APP_COLOR

secrets:
secrets contains the informatioon like db password etc. Similar to the configmaps secrets can be made using yaml file or imperative method and created secre4ts can be injected to the pods in pod manifest

Multi-container Pods Design Patterns
There are 3 common patterns, when it comes to designing multi-container PODs. 
The first and what we just saw with the logging service example is known as a side car pattern. The others are the adapter and the ambassador pattern.

initContainers:
A process that pulls a code or binary from a repository that will be used by the main web application. 
That is a task that will be run only  one time when the pod is first created. Or a process that waits  for an external service or database to be up before the actual application starts. 
That's where initContainers comes in.
An initContainer is configured in a pod like all other containers, except that it is specified inside a initContainers section,
spec:
  containers:
  - name: myapp-container
    image: busybox:1.28
    command: ['sh', '-c', 'echo The app is running! && sleep 3600']
  initContainers:
  - name: init-myservice
    image: busybox
    command: ['sh', '-c', 'git clone <some-repository-that-will-be-used-by-application> ; done;']